# Visualizing Government Debt
In this assignment, we work with OECD data and a few types of visualizations to tell a story.

## Web-based Visualization Tools and Data (Part 1)
We started with an OECD-generated visualization that shows the range of government debt as a percentage of their GDP. I chose to focus on 2016 because that was the year the Brexit referendum occurred as well as the year Donald Trump was elected, so I find it to be an interesting time period to examine.<sup>[1](#note1)</sup>


<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6sBM" width="860" height="645" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6sBM" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2016</a></iframe>


## Working with Flourish (Part 2)
The second part of this project was to work with Flourish, a remarkably simple yet versatile online visualization tool. 

The first graphic is generated by following instructions in the assignment, using the same OECD source data as above. This graphic depicts each country's debt-to-GDP ratio over time.
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/7213245"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

This next visualization was made with the same OECD data, but I wanted the reader to be able to see the progression over time, and to get some sense of a comparison between countries. It depicts each country's debt-to-GDP ratio in a bar chart that starts out as a light color and gets darker over time. I picked the grid of bar charts because I felt that it was slightly easier to see which country had more color in their grid (relating to a higher debt-to-GDP ratio), versus trying to compare lines across a large space (as in the second graphic).
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/7245205"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

This final visualization was not required by the assignment, but I found myself wanting to be able to visualize direct comparison between countries. I didn't feel that the first OECD-generated visualization allowed me to compare well over time. I wanted to create a graphic depicting the global average debt-to-GDP ratio as an area chart so that the reader could understand the global trend, but the data did not have global averages so I settled for a bar chart with color gradient by value.
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/7245222"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

## Analysis of Visualizations
All three of the above graphs are created with data from the OECD on general government debt. The data is a ratio of debt-to-GDP for each country, and it is sourced from [here](https://data.oecd.org/gga/general-government-debt.htm). According to the OECD's definition, debt-to-GDP raio is a "key indicator" of sustainable government finances. Their calculation of debt included currency, loans, and pensions among other things.

The first graph is very fun. I didn't find it particularly useful for making conclusions - that is, I found it to be too general to use for comparisons or analysis on its own. It is a lovely interactive tool that showcases a large amount of data compactly, but isn't a graph that immediately lends itself to analytic conclusions. I also found it hard to highlight more than one country as the default color choices were loud and disparate.

I similarly found the grid of lines (second graph above) to be hard to grok. Yes it is visually appealing, but I found myself wanting to make comparisons between countries or to understand more of how the ratios have changed over time, and neither of those things were easy to do. As a result, in the third graph I looked for a color scheme that would make change over time clearer, and a type of graph that would make comparison between countries more doable in the grid of charts format. I don't think I perfectly accomplished that, but I do like how the color gradient makes my eye focus more on the recent years. I like how the bar charts give me a  sense of the area that each country's ratio occupies. Since the y-axis is consistent across the visualization, this allows for some comparative analysis between countries (albeit not an exact one). In the final graph, I grouped the countries by year with a drop-down menu so that each year could be viewed individually. I kept the colors consistent over the years so when changing which year the viewer is observing, they can see how different countries move up or down in the rankings of debt-to-GDP ratio. 

Aside from really enjoying the use of Flourish as a tool, I found this exercise to be a great reminder of what we've learned in class about the importance of narrative in a graphic. There are many ways to approach or examine a particular dataset, each of which can be used to demonstrate different conclusions or analysis to the viewer. 

### Notes
If you'd like to return to my main page, you can do so [here](/README.md).

<a name="note1">1</a>: For more on why I think 2016 was an interesting year, see [this article](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2016/12/24/how-to-make-sense-of-2016) from The Economist.
